---
title: IIYS (I'm in your system)
date: 2024-06-25 00:00:00
tags: [project,iiys]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
toc: true
pin: false
---

Well, it's been a while! Many months ago I watched this video on mastery. It said that practicing for mastery over a skill requires 4 key criteria to be met. Those were
- a valid environment
- many repititions
- timely feedback
- deliberate practice

I decided to master life! But I have only one life so I can't do many repititions of it, hence I shall stick to mastering the day. A day is not totally random, there is cause an effect hence it's a **valid environment**. I'll live many days so I can do **many repetitions**. **Timely feedback** is the trickiest part. More on this later. My life spikes in difficulty randomly so I don't really need to go out of my way for **deliberate practice**. 

This project exists to give me timely feedback on how my day progesses. There are things I want to do everyday, like working out, coding, drawing, music etc. I will track all of those things using this. But in an of itself that's a little dull, so this project will also contain an immersive environment with characters I'd like to speak with. Think of it as another reality, one that motivates me and provides support to get through my real reality. I'll be creating AI agents that are responsible for keeping me on track with various parts of my life. 

So to summarise: This project is a scaffold to help me live my ideal day.

In the future I might make this interact with my linux system to manage it (cortana for linux) but I'm getting ahead of myself now.

Here are the key deliverables:
A linux and ios (until I switch to glorious android) app that
- tracks my progress in a day
- implements AI agents tasked with certain aspects of my day
- voice support (mic and speaker)

An AI agent is needed for
- General assistant activities like goal tracking and schedule monitoring
- Tracking my workouts and diet
- Keeping track of findings related to music and assisting the music creation process
- Cataloging my art and rating it maybe?
- Giving me feedback on my code and helping me learn stuff

That should do for now, onward!
